superchain-weth (#1043)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/stack/interop/superchain-weth.mdx

---
title: SuperchainWETH (Interoperable ETH)
lang: en-US
description: Learn basic details about the SuperchainWETH or Interoperable ETH.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# SuperchainWETH (Interoperable ETH)

<Callout>
  Interop is currently in active development and not yet ready for production use. The information provided here may change. Check back regularly for the most up-to-date information.
</Callout>

Superchain WETH or Interoperable ETH is a specialized version of the standard WETH (Wrapped Ether) contract designed to enable seamless movement of ETH across the Superchain. It addresses the liquidity constraints and usability issues that arise when transferring ETH between different chains.

## Features and benefits

*   Enables seamless ETH transfers across different chains in the Superchain
*   Minimizes protocol complexity by treating ETH as an ERC-20 token
*   Maintains fungibility of ETH across the Superchain
*   Provides liquidity for cross-chain transactions

> *   Supports interoperability between chains with different native assets (i.e., gas tokens)

Author: removed

*   Improves user experience by abstracting complex bridging processes

<Callout type="warning">
  `SuperchainWETH` requires `SuperchainTokenBridge` integration for full interoperable, cross-chain functionality.
</Callout>

## How it works

Interoperable ETH (Superchain WETH) facilitates secure movement of ETH across the Superchain via `crosschainBurn` and `crosschainMint`.

> *   **`crosschainBurn`**: Facilitates cross-chain transfers by **burning** WETH. The user sends ETH to the `SuperchainWETH` contract. `SuperchainWETH` interacts with `ETHLiquidity` to burn the ETH and sends a cross-chain message via the `L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger` to the destination chain.

Reviewer: Not exactly - the `crosschainBurn` does not send a cross-chain message via the `L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger` to the destination chain, see the function definition [here](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/a68e3ef430383f90001eb3761db492564e3aa2ca/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/SuperchainWETH.sol#L82). Where the cross-chain message is created is in the `[SendERC20](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/aeaee21725b34b0aeacebf9300cff064d6228e05/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/SuperchainTokenBridge.sol#L55)` function on `SuperchainTokenBridge`. In `SendERC20` the `SuperchainTokenBridge` calls  `crosschainBurn` and creates a cross chain message via the `L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger`. This message, once processed on the destination chain, results in a `crosschainMint` call which provides the recipient with `SuperchainWETH`. **Note** `crosschainBurn` and `crosschainMint` are only callable by the `SuperchainTokenBridge`.

Additonally a separate `deposit` step must occur before `crosschainBurn` is called. In the `deposit` step the user sends their `ETH` to the `SuperchainWETH` contract, which calls the `[deposit]`(https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/a68e3ef430383f90001eb3761db492564e3aa2ca/packages/contracts-bedrock/src/L2/SuperchainWETH.sol#L30) function on `SuperchainWETH`. This results in the user being given the amount of `SuperchainWETH` equivalent to the amount of `ETH` they sent (this step is also known as "wrapping" your ETH). After depositing, the user can call `SuperchainTokenBridge#SendERC20` to transfer any amount of `SuperchainWETH` within their balance to a recipient on the destination chain.

> *   **`crosschainBurn`**: Facilitates cross-chain transfers by **burning** WETH. The user sends ETH to the `SuperchainWETH` contract. `SuperchainWETH` interacts with `ETHLiquidity` to burn the ETH and sends a cross-chain message via the `L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger` to the destination chain.

Author: thank you, updating now ❤️

> *   **`crosschainMint`**: Mints WETH on the destination chain after a cross-chain transfer. The user receives ETH or WETH on the destination chain. If the destination is a non-custom gas token chain, ETH is sourced from the `ETHLiquidity` contract.

Author: updated

sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant SuperchainWETH
    participant ETHLiquidity
    participant L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger
    participant DestinationChain

    User->>SuperchainWETH: Send ETH
    SuperchainWETH->>ETHLiquidity: Burn ETH
    SuperchainWETH->>L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger: Send cross-chain message
    L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger->>DestinationChain: Relay message
    DestinationChain->>SuperchainWETH: Call relayETH/relayERC20
    SuperchainWETH->>ETHLiquidity: Source ETH (if non-custom gas token chain)
    SuperchainWETH->>User: Receive ETH/WETH on destination chain
```

This diagram illustrates the process where the user sends ETH to the `SuperchainWETH` contract which burns the ETH and sends a cross-chain message to the destination chain, enabling seamless cross-chain ETH transfers without the need for asset wrapping.

## Major components

### `SuperchainWETH` Contract

This contract implements the core functionality for wrapping, unwrapping, and cross-chain transfer of ETH. It integrates with the `SuperchainTokenBridge` for interoperable actions. 
*   Contract address: `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000024`

### `ETHLiquidity` Contract

> A predeploy contract with a large pool of ETH that provides liquidity for cross-chain transfers. It allows "burning" and "minting" of ETH for cross-chain transfers. 

Author: added

---
title: SuperchainWETH (Interoperable ETH)
lang: en-US
description: Learn basic details about SuperchainWETH or Interoperable ETH.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# SuperchainWETH (Interoperable ETH)

<Callout>
  Interop is currently in active development and not yet ready for production use. The information provided here may change. Check back regularly for the most up-to-date information.
</Callout>

Superchain WETH or Interoperable ETH is a specialized version of the standard WETH (Wrapped Ether) contract designed to enable seamless movement of ETH across the Superchain. It addresses the liquidity constraints and usability issues that arise when transferring ETH between different chains.

## Features and benefits

*   Enables seamless ETH transfers across different chains in the Superchain
*   Maintains fungibility of ETH across the Superchain
*   Provides liquidity for cross-chain transactions
*   Improves user experience by abstracting complex bridging processes

<Callout>

> `SuperchainTokenBridge` only has the ability to rebalance the asset across chains. It cannot mint or increase/decrease the total circulating supply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The `SuperchainTokenBridge` can only rebalance assets across chains. It cannot mint or increase/decrease the total circulating supply.
```

</Callout>

## How it works

Currently, L2-to-L2 ETH transfers between two interoperable chains require four separate transactions:

1.  Wrap `ETH` to `SuperchainWETH`.
2.  Call `SuperchainTokenBridge#SendERC20` to burn `SuperchainWETH` on source chain and relay a message to the destination chain that mints `SuperchainWETH` to the recipient (`crosschainBurn` is used).
3.  Execute the message on the destination chain, triggering `SuperchainTokenBridge#RelayERC20` to mint `SuperchainWETH` to the recipient (`crosschainMint` is used). If the destination is a non-custom gas token chain, ETH is sourced from the `ETHLiquidity` contract.
4.  Unwrap the received `SuperchainWETH` to `ETH`.

> <Callout type="info">

Reviewer 3: Callouts are noisy and I tend to avoid using them for info that only a small amount of the audience cares about. I'd un-callout this, but also feel free to disregard this comment if you disagree

Abstraction is a possible future consideration to reduce this process to two transactions, which can be followed in the [design docs](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/design-docs/pull/146/files).
</Callout>

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant User
    participant Source Chain
    participant Cross-Chain Messenger
    participant Destination Chain

    User->>Source Chain: 1. Wrap ETH to SuperchainWETH
    Source Chain->>Cross-Chain Messenger: 2. Burn SuperchainWETH and relay message
    Cross-Chain Messenger->>Destination Chain: 3. Mint SuperchainWETH to recipient
    User->>Destination Chain: 4. Unwrap SuperchainWETH to ETH
```

> _Figure 1: Superchain WETH Transfer Process between two interoperable L2 chains._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Figure 1: Superchain WETH transfer process between two interoperable L2 chains._
```

<Callout type="warning">
  `crosschainBurn` and `crosschainMint`can only be called by the `SuperchainTokenBridge`. 
</Callout>

## Major components

> ### `SuperchainWETH` Contract

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `SuperchainWETH` contract
```

This contract implements the core functionality for wrapping, unwrapping, and cross-chain transfer of ETH. It integrates with the `SuperchainTokenBridge` for interoperable actions.

*   Contract address: `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000024`

> ### `ETHLiquidity` Contract

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `ETHLiquidity` contract
```

A predeploy contract with a large pool of ETH that provides liquidity for cross-chain transfers. It allows "burning" and "minting" of ETH for cross-chain transfers. ETH is associated with bridge ETH from the L1 lockbox, making ETH available to interop chains through a shared lockbox rather than fragmented amongst the existing portal contracts.

*   Contract address: `0x4200000000000000000000000000000000000025`

> ### `L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger` Contract

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `L2ToL2CrossDomainMessenger` contract
```
